feat(sdks): documents the SDK ecosystem support policy (#15472)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/fundamentals/reference/sdk-ecosystem-support-policy.md

We provide three primary stages of development: early access, active support and end of life.

{{<Aside type="note">}}
These lifecycle stages may be known by different names however, the underlying principles are the same.
{{</Aside>}}

### Early access

During this stage, we make available changes that we are seeking feedback on prior to it being ready for general usage. Here, there are often warning labels or caveats on functionality as they are subject to change without notice. In general, these are not suitable for production systems unless explicitly mentioned.

### Active support

The active support stage is where planned changes and support are being offered for the library or tool.

### End of life

End of life commonly occurs when we release a new major version of the library or tool. At this point, the previous major version is marked as no longer receiving improvements or bug fixes. If you continue to run end of life versions, support will be very limited.

> _The diagram below show all the lifecycle stages and their relation to one another._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![](/images/fundamentals/support-policy.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![All lifecycle stages and their relation to one another](/images/fundamentals/support-policy.png "All lifecycle stages and their relation to one another")
```

Reviewer: We support adding captions to images now.

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: SDK ecosystem support policy
weight: 5
---

# SDK ecosystem support policy

## Lifecycle

> Unless otherwise stated in the code repository, we only provide active support for the latest major version of a library or tool. The exception to this policy is critical security fixes which will be reviewed on a case by case basis taking the vulnerability, impact and mitigation required into consideration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise stated in the code repository, we only provide active support for the latest major version of a library or tool. The exception to this policy is for critical security fixes, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and take the vulnerability, impact, and mitigation required into consideration.
```

> Unless otherwise stated in the code repository, we only provide active support for the latest major version of a library or tool. The exception to this policy is critical security fixes which will be reviewed on a case by case basis taking the vulnerability, impact and mitigation required into consideration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise stated in the code repository, Cloudflare only provides active support for the latest major version of a library or tool. The exception to this policy is critical security fixes which will be reviewed on a case by case basis taking the vulnerability, impact and mitigation required into consideration.
```

> Unless otherwise stated in the code repository, we only provide active support for the latest major version of a library or tool. The exception to this policy is for critical security fixes, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and take the vulnerability, impact, and mitigation required into consideration.

Author: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise stated in the code repository, Cloudflare only provides active support for the latest major version of a library or tool. The exception to this policy is for critical security fixes, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and take the vulnerability, impact, and mitigation required into consideration.
```

> We provide three primary stages of development: early access, active support and end of life.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We provide three primary stages of development: early access, active support, and end of life.
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> These lifecycle stages may be known by different names however, the underlying principles are the same.

Reviewer 2: Are you trying to say that these lifecycle names may vary between our products, or generally in how people use them across the industry? Not sure we need the note given we define each stage below

Author: the first thing. the difficulty we have in many cases is that early access access may be called alpha, beta, closed access, etc but it all means the same thing in the context of this document. instead of trying to call out every permutation we have, i've put them under the umbrella of a single one to convey the intention.

{{</Aside>}}

### Early access

> During this stage, we make available changes that we are seeking feedback on prior to it being ready for general usage. Here, there are often warning labels or caveats on functionality as they are subject to change without notice. In general, these are not suitable for production systems unless explicitly mentioned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During this stage, Cloudflare makes SDK changes available that we are seeking feedback on prior to releasing for general usage. Early access will  often include warning labels or caveats on functionality that is subject to change without notice. In general, early access SDKs are not suitable for production systems unless explicitly mentioned.
```

### Active support

> The active support stage is where planned changes and support are being offered for the library or tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the active support stage, planned changes and support are offered for the library or tool.
```

Reviewer 2: Question though - what do you mean by "planned changes"? That any changes will be proactively communicated?

### End of life

> End of life commonly occurs when we release a new major version of the library or tool. At this point, the previous major version is marked as no longer receiving improvements or bug fixes. If you continue to run end of life versions, support will be very limited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the end of life stage, a new major version of the library or tool is released and Cloudflare marks the previous major version as no longer receiving improvements or bug fixes. If you continue to run end of life versions, support will be very limited.
```

![All lifecycle stages and their relation to one another](/images/fundamentals/support-policy.png "All lifecycle stages and their relation to one another")

## Previous or end of life versions

> While we cannot provide support for all older versions of our libraries or tools, we do not remove or yank those versions so they can continued to be used without direct support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While Cloudflare cannot provide support for all older versions of our libraries or tools, we do not remove those versions so they can continued to be used without direct support.
```

## Versioning

> The SDK ecosystem follows [semantic versioning]. At a high level, the guidance is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SDK ecosystem follows semantic versioning, which defines versions as follows:
```

> - MAJOR version when there are backwards incompatible changes made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MAJOR version when there are backward-incompatible changes made.
```

> - MINOR version when functionality is added in a backward compatible manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MINOR version when functionality is added in a backward compatible-manner.
```

> - PATCH version for backward compatible bug fixes (without any improvements).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- PATCH version for backward-compatible bug fixes (without any improvements).
```

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

> As we have recently swapped to [automatically generating our libraries using OpenAPI](https://blog.cloudflare.com/lessons-from-building-an-automated-sdk-pipeline) we have relaxed the strict versioning requirements on the libraries (Terraform is not changing). Minor releases _may_ contain breaking changes in the forms of method, structure or type renames as the service owners stabilise their schemas and iterate on usability improvements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As Cloudflare has recently swapped to [automatically generating our libraries using OpenAPI](https://blog.cloudflare.com/lessons-from-building-an-automated-sdk-pipeline), we have relaxed the strict versioning requirements on the libraries (Terraform is not changing). Minor releases _may_ contain breaking changes in the forms of method, structure ,or type renames as the service owners stabilize their schemas and iterate on usability improvements.
```

> If this is not suitable for your use case, you should pin to a known good version or use the previous major version of the library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this is not suitable for your use case, pin to a known good version or use the previous major version of the library.
```

{{</Aside>}}

> Depending on your needs, you should ensure your application's package manager versioning is configured correctly. At a minimum, you should restrict installation to the current major version of the library or tool you are using to prevent any major version upgrades occurring automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on your needs, you should ensure your application's package manager versioning is configured correctly. At a minimum, restrict installation to the current major version of the library or tool you are using to prevent any major version upgrades occurring automatically.
```

## Migration

> Where possible, we provide an automated approach to performing major version upgrades to limit the disruption using codemods. You should review the library or tool specific release notes for how to use these migration tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Where possible, Cloudflare provides an automated approach to performing major version upgrades to limit the disruption using codemods. Review the library or tool-specific release notes for how to use these migration tools.
```

Alongside the automatic migration approach, we provide documentation on the changes that have taken place in case you need to make the changes manually.

> [semantic versioning]: https://semver.org/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Related resources

- [Semantic versioning definitions](https://semver.org/)
- [Cloudflare's Terraform documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/terraform/)
```

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: SDK ecosystem support policy
weight: 5
---

# SDK ecosystem support policy

## Lifecycle

Unless otherwise stated in the code repository, Cloudflare only provides active support for the latest major version of a library or tool. The exception to this policy is for critical security fixes, which will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and take the vulnerability, impact, and mitigation required into consideration.

We provide three primary stages of development: early access, active support, and end of life.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> These lifecycle stages may be known by different names however, the underlying principles are the same.

Author: ```suggestion
These lifecycle stages may be referred to in different terms across Cloudflare products, but the underlying principles are the same.
```

### Active support

During the active support stage, planned changes and support are offered for the library or tool.

### End of life

During the end of life stage, a new major version of the library or tool is released and Cloudflare marks the previous major version as no longer receiving improvements or bug fixes. If you continue to run end of life versions, support will be very limited.

![All lifecycle stages and their relation to one another](/images/fundamentals/support-policy.png "All lifecycle stages and their relation to one another")

## Previous or end of life versions

While Cloudflare cannot provide support for all older versions of our libraries or tools, we do not remove those versions so they can continued to be used without direct support.

## Versioning

The SDK ecosystem follows semantic versioning, which defines versions as follows:

- MAJOR version when there are backward-incompatible changes made.
- MINOR version when functionality is added in a backward compatible-manner.
- PATCH version for backward-compatible bug fixes (without any improvements).

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

> As Cloudflare has recently swapped to [automatically generating our libraries using OpenAPI](https://blog.cloudflare.com/lessons-from-building-an-automated-sdk-pipeline), we have relaxed the strict versioning requirements on the libraries (Terraform is not changing). Minor releases _may_ contain breaking changes in the forms of method, structure ,or type renames as the service owners stabilize their schemas and iterate on usability improvements.

Reviewer 3: I feel it is ill-advised to start this section of the document by stating `The SDK ecosystem follows semantic versioning` to then immediately _substantially_ back-track on that commitment with this statement which basically gives carte-blanche coverage for shipping breaking changes to users...

Author: this document is broader than the autogenerated libraries. the SDK ecosystems encompass other tools (like Terraform) where semver is used.

Reviewer 3: Right, and I get that, but I still think the wording here fights against itself in a way that is confusing to users and puts Cloudflare in a bad light.

> If this is not suitable for your use case, pin to a known good version or use the previous major version of the library.

Reviewer 4: It might be good to showcase some examples of what might change in minor versions here, and across different ecosystems. There's different expectations in the JavaScript ecosystem with npm, than the Python ecosystem, for example.

The TypeScript SDK changed the behaviour entirely of a method recently, which wasn't called out in any release notes, api docs, or other docs: https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-typescript/issues/1176

`method, structure ,or type renames` doesn't seem to apply to methods having functionality entirely changed to a different endpoint?

{{</Aside>}}

Depending on your needs, you should ensure your application's package manager versioning is configured correctly. At a minimum, restrict installation to the current major version of the library or tool you are using to prevent any major version upgrades occurring automatically.

## Migration

Where possible, Cloudflare provides an automated approach to performing major version upgrades to limit the disruption using codemods. Review the library or tool-specific release notes for how to use these migration tools.

Alongside the automatic migration approach, we provide documentation on the changes that have taken place in case you need to make the changes manually.

## Related resources

- [Semantic versioning definitions](https://semver.org/)

> - [Cloudflare's Terraform documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/terraform/)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Cloudflare's Terraform documentation](/terraform/)
```
